JavaSynchronizedBlock

                                     * * *

A Java synchronized block marks a method or a block of code as synchronized.
Java Synchronized blocks can be used to avoid race conditions.

                                     * * *

• The Java Synchronized Keyword
      Synchronized blockes in Java are marked with the synchronized keyword. A
      synchronized block in Java is synchronized on some object. All
      synchronized blocks synchronized on the same object can only have one
      thread executing inside them at the same time. All other threads
      attempting to enter the synchronized block are blocked until the thread
      inside the synchronized block exits the block.

      The synchronized keyword can be used to mark four different types of
      blocks:
         ▸ Instance methods
         ▸ Static methods
         ▸ Code blocks inside instance methods
         ▸ Code blocks inside static methods
      
      These blocks are synchronized on different objects. Which type of
      synchronized block you need depends on the concrete situation.

                                     * * *

• Synchronized Instance Methods
   Here is a synchronized instance method:
      public synchronized void add(int value) {
         this.count += value;
      }

   Notice the use of the synchronized keyword in the method declaration. This
   tells Java that the method is synchronized.

   A synchronized instance method in Java is synchronized on the instance
   (object) owning the method. Thus each instance has its synchronized methods
   synchronized on a different object: the owning instance. Only one thread can
   execute inside a synchronized instance method. If more than one instance
   exist then one thread at a time can execute inside a synchronized instance
   method per instance. One thread per instance.

                                     * * *

• Synchronized Static Methods
   Static methods are marked as synchronized just like instance methods using
   the synchronized keyword. Here is a Java synchronized static method example:
      public static synchronized void add(int value) {
         count += value;
      }
   Also here the synchronized keyword tells Java that the method is
   synchronized.

   Synchronized static methods are synchronized on the class object of the class
   the synchronized static method belongs to. Since only one class object exists
   in the Java VM per class, only one thread can execute inside a static
   synchronized method in the same class.

   If the static synchronized methods are located in different classes, then one
   thread can execute inside the static synchronized methods of each class. One
   thread per class regardless of which static synchronized method it calls.

                                     * * *

• Synchronized Blocks in Instance Methods
• Synchronized Blocks in Static Methods
• Java Synchronized Example
